---
title: Why I Wanted to be an International Orientation Leader @ Williams College
date: '2020-09-20T12:00:00.00Z'
description: 'My answers to interview prompts that turned out to nicely describe my personal opinions about cultural diversity.'
---

## What is your motivation for applying to be an IOL and why do you think you will be a fit for this position? 

It is incredibly special to be an international student at Williams, and I want my freshmen to fully appreciate that. My main motivation comes from my regret of not understanding this throughout my fall semester; it felt very natural to prioritize assimilating into the majority culture when placed in such a new environment. There existed a general feeling that it was cooler to be friends with those athletic american kids, and a general discomfort in knowing that most other students within a sizable radius from my dorm recognized I was different from them. Although students at Williams are quite friendly, feelings of exclusion does not have to arise from direct hostility; they often come from others' well-meaning microaggressions about our cultures they justifiably don't understand, common sayings that my American TV shows failed to prepare me for, and references to American life others are shocked I don't grasp. 

I want to be an IOL to make sure that my freshmen feel secure in these first days of official orientation when they suddenly find themselves as an overwhelmed minority. I want them to understand going into the semester that they are a fundamental part of what gives color to this vibrant campus and that special opportunities are coming their way for their unique values to manifest through activities like Story Time, cooking authentic food in social events, and so forth.

I believe that I am a fit for this position because my fundamental values align well with those of IOLs. For the above reasons, I have a strong desire to ensure that international students have a successful life here at Williams beyond the basic steps, which starts with them knowing their value in this community and continues throughout the year with practical guidance in navigating their life at Williams. Coupled with these values is my social enthusiasm and shamelessness that makes it easy for those around me to “break the ice”. Many people feel a level of discomfort among so many new faces; IOLs that are already comfortable and enthusiastic are what makes it smoother. 


## What vision do you have for International Orientation 2020 and why? 

My most memorable moment in the international orientation was the activity in the '62 center where students stepped in or out of the circle based on how much they related to a given statement. Unsurprisingly, I feel this way because the diversity of our experiences and cultures felt celebrated in that moment; all of us were able to give each other a glimpse into our unique experiences from places others may have only read about in books and news articles. It was memorable because it gave me a nice feeling in the moment for the above reasons, but my appreciation for it has deepened now knowing that it was the first display of the quintessential value our international community brings in this college wherever we go. As said above, every new class of international students bring additional color to this vibrant campus and this value is too often gone unappreciated. 

I wish that more activities carried this point. To this day, I am constantly surprised about stories from kids I met back in orientation. There could be books written about some of the experiences that were shared with me; and I think this is something that WOOLF did well. At WOOLF, every night, students tell a short story of their life around a campfire. These were some of my favorite moments during WOOLF, when the new friends around me that were once one-dimensional (because I knew them for less than a day) became immediately multi-dimensional characters with so many interesting experiences. It's no wonder why I found myself in a similar activity in another student association on campus-these life story activities are just so powerful. I think that the campfire activity during International Orientation could've been improved with a structured story time.

I also found that the most effective activities during orientation were the ones in smaller groups (unsurprisingly). It is very hard to actually ask all the questions on one's mind during a lecture-style activity despite the insistence that they should feel free to. I remember in a smaller activity when a friend asked me what people meant by "consent", and thinking that it would be unreasonable to expect one to ask such a question in a lecture-based setting. I feel like most of the IOLs know their stuff; why not let us teach and discuss in a smaller circle? 



##  Describe a conversation or experience where your understanding of social identities and privilege was challenged or where you had to confront your own privilege in a multicultural/multiracial setting.

Though my city is recognized as an extremely wealthy region worldwide, many parts of my city did not share this privilege. And every day my bus ride would pass through streets full of old ladies selling vegetables on the street, stores that are barely maintained with hardly any customers, and so forth. In my sophomore spring semester of high school, I was working on a school project about Kiva and wondered if a similar notion of microfinance could help all these people improve their lives. As someone very interested in entrepreneurship, the idea was immediately intuitive to me: with adequate initial capital, these people could have better organized businesses and sell higher quality products to gain momentum towards a stronger business. A small loan could be the ultimate momentum that people need to change their lives. 

My partners and I were very hopeful about this project; I even got to talk to the head of a microfinance firm in my city to talk about the logistics of it. I also knew the school would be very happy to fund us. My natural next move was market research, to interview the people from the communities I passed by everyday that I wanted to help. I wanted to learn about their stories and how much a small loan could help them. 

But this market research led to surprising and disappointing results. None of these people wanted our help. We knew it would be inappropriate to go up to strangers and tell them we're here to give them free money, so we told them that we were students that were simply doing research for school. 

It turned out that I had been operating with a significant assumption, an oversight ultimately due to my privilege. It was through my privilege that I grew up with unbridled ambitions and an unwavering expectation for a successful life; my privilege made sure I had no family to worry about while I chase after my dreams, that only a lazy idler would not take the chances I am offering to these people to better their lives. But to my consternation, none of these people answered positively our hypothetical questions about what they would do with this business loan. They said they wouldn't want such a thing. They told us they were not here to build some successful business to become wealthy; they were here to support their children and grandparents and that any disruption to the little peace and stability they have left would be the end of everything. They refused to share anything about money in general because it was such a sensitive topic that could not be answered. Everyone that we interviewed across many days gave us this response and I slowly understood how vastly different my perspectives were from these people due to my privilege. I had to shut down the project but I took away a new understanding of my privilege.
